In the previous lesson,
we learned about even more
ways to filter queries in
SQL to work with some typical
security analyst tasks.
However, when working with
real security questions,
we often have to filter
for multiple conditions.
Vulnerabilities, for instance,
might depend on more
than one factor.
For example, a
security vulnerability
might be related to
machines using a
specific email client
on a specific operating system.
So, to find the possible
vulnerabilities,
we need to find machines using
both the email client and
the operating system.
To make a query with
multiple conditions
that must be met,
we use the AND operator between
two separate conditions.
AND is an operator
that specifies that
both conditions must
be met simultaneously.
Bringing this back to our
fruit and vegetable analogy,
this is the same as asking
someone to select apples from
the big box where the
apples are large and fresh.
This means our results won't
include any small apples
even if they're fresh, or
any rotten apples even
if they're large.
They'll only include
large fresh apples.
The apples must meet
both conditions.
Going back to our database,
the machines table lists
all operating systems
and email clients.
We want a list of machines
running Operating System
1 and a list of machines
using Email Client 1.
We'll use the left
and right circles in
the Venn diagram to
represent these groups.
We need SQL to select
the machines that
have both OS 1 and
Email Client 1.
The filled-in area at
the intersection of
these circles represents
this condition.
Let's take this and
implement it in SQL.
First, we're going to start by
building the first
lines of the query,
telling SQL to SELECT*
all columns FROM the
machines table.
Then, we'll add the WHERE clause.
Let's examine this more closely.
First, we indicate
the first condition
that it must meet,
that the operating system
column has a value of '0S 1'
Then, we use AND to join
this to another condition.
And finally, we enter
the other condition,
in this case that
the email client column should
have a value of 'Email Client 1'
And this is how you use the
AND operator in SQL!
Let's run this to get
the query results.
Perfect! All the results
match both our conditions!
Let's keep going and explore
more ways to combine
different conditions by
working with the OR operator.
The OR operator is
an operator that
specifies that either
condition can be met.
In a Venn diagram,
let's say each circle
represents a condition.
When they are joined with OR,
SQL would select all rows that
satisfy one of the conditions.
And it's also ok if it
meets both conditions.
Let's run another query
and use the OR operator.
Let's say that we wanted the
filter to identify
machines that have
either OS 1 or OS 3 because
both types need a patch.
We'll type in these conditions.
Let's examine this more closely.
After WHERE, our first
condition indicates we want to
filter, so that the query
selects machines with 'OS 1'
We use the OR operator
because we also want
to find records that
match another condition.
This additional condition
is placed after OR and
indicates to also select
machines running 'OS 3'
Executing the query,
our results now include
records that have a value of
either OS 1 or OS 3 in the
operating system column.
Good job, we're running
some complex queries.
The last operator
we're going to go
into is the NOT operator.
NOT negates a condition.
In a diagram,
we can show this by selecting
every entry that does
not match our condition.
The condition is
represented by the circle.
The filled-in portion outside
the circle represents
what gets returned.
This is all data that does
not match the condition.
For example, when
picking out fruit,
you can be looking for any
fruit that is not an apple.
That is a lot more efficient
than telling your
friend you want
a banana or an orange
or a lime, and so on.
Suppose you wanted to update
all of the devices in
your company except for
the ones using OS 3.
Bringing this into SQL,
we can write this query.
We place NOT after
WHERE and before the
condition of the filter.
Executing these queries
gives us the list
of all the machines that
aren't running OS 3, and
now we know which
machines to update.
That was a lot of new content
that we just looked into,
but you're learning more
and more SQL that you
can use on your journey
to become an analyst!
In the next video,
we'll be learning
how to combine and
join two tables together to
expand the kinds of queries we can
run. I'll meet you there!